# sp21-cs242-assignment2.1
Due date: :crescent_moon: 23:59 CDT March 8, 2021 :clock12: <br>
I did a tooth surgery, so I got two days extension
### Part I: Query Parse and Execution
:round_pushpin:<br>
To support complex operations in addition to simple look up for books and authors, a query Domain-Specific Language is needed. For the purpose of this assignment, we will be implementing a simplified version of Elasticsearch's query language. You can find the full specification here. Generally, to make an interpreter of a language, you will need to scan user inputs, parse expressions into trees (for nested operations), and execute expressions and statements. You can find a more hands-on and detailed tutorial here. For this assignment, since this language is very simple, you can use regular expressions to replace part of the parsing stage, and you are not required to consider operators that allow nesting. Consult official Python doc on regular expression here.<br>
Note that this is not a full-fledged programming language, nor we do not expect you to create a full-fledged interpreter for this language, but you should still take note of aforementioned flow for the sake of extensibility and versatility of your interpreter. Only required behaviors of required operators of this language are listed, and feel free to make any assumptions for other parts, but you must discuss them during your discussion and document them in your code and README file.<br>

### Part2 API Creation
:round_pushpin:<br>
APIs are used in many real-world applications and are common in software development, web development, personal projects, hackathon, and many other places. In this assignment, we are asking you to write a web API. In addition to making your data accessible, this will help give you a better understanding of how web structuring works.<br>
Your API should include the following endpoints: GET, PUT, POST and DELETE (CRUD). Best practices and resources to design APIs are listed in this blog post. Please read through this to get a sense of how to set up good API parameters and mechanisms. We likely will not utilize all but this is a solid resource. Your response should be formatted in JSON. You can use CURL or postman to demonstrate that your API is working. Note that for Put and Post, new information should be stored in HTTP request body as JSON, and for all requests, id is passed as query parameters in the URL itself. Check out this answer for the differences between them.<br>
In addition to returning HTTP status codes, in this assignment you should also return corresponding error messages detailing what happened. You should incorporate this in your api design, and think about how to structure your response so that other developers can understand when data is returned and when errors occurred. For example, you can use the same JSON object that contain both data and error entries, and if you choose this approach you can take inspiration from GraphQL's query response here. Alternatively you can use different JSON objects, and the client can figure out which object is returned via HTTP status codes. You can checkout this article on how error objects can be structured.<br>


### Part3 Command Line Application Extension
:round_pushpin:<br>
Extend the command line application you worked on last week by including the functionality specified in the GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE endpoints. In other words, you should design a command line interface that supports getting book / author information, performing searches, updating and creating books / authors, scraping new books / authors, and deleting book / author. Tree-like menus are recommended for interactivity, but command line arguments are acceptable too (in the latter case, you must design your command line arguments carefully). Note that there will be heavy penalty if you fail to reuse most of the code from previous parts.